\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This will be for the printing version of the manual
@c @input config-local.texi
@c %**start of header
@setfilename astrochem.info
@settitle Astrochem
@finalout
@set frontcontents
@ifset publish
@setchapternewpage odd
@end ifset
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Scientific software
@direntry
* Astrochem: (astrochem).                   Astrochem
@end direntry

@c How to use the math macros
@c ==========================
@c 
@c For simple expressions, simply use the @math{} command, e.g.
@c
@c     @math{\exp(x)/(1+x^2)}
@c 
@c but if the expression includes characters that need to be 'escaped'
@c in texinfo, like '{' or '}', or needs different output for TeX and info,
@c then use the following form,
@c
@c     blah blah blah @c{$y^{1+b} \le \pi$}
@c     @math{y^@{1+b@} <= \pi}
@c
@c The first part using @c{} must appear at the end of a line (it reads
@c up to the line end -- as far as texinfo is concerned it's actually
@c a 'comment').  The comment command @c has been modified to capture
@c a TeX expression which is output by the next @math.
@c
@c For ordinary comments use the @comment command.

@tex
% Mathematical macros taken from the GNU Calc Manual
% ==================================================
%
% Some special kludges to make TeX formatting prettier.
% Because makeinfo.c exists, we can't just define new commands.
% So instead, we take over little-used existing commands.
%
% Redefine @cite{text} to act like $text$ in regular TeX.
% Info will typeset this same as @samp{text}.
\gdef\goodtex{\tex \let\rm\goodrm \let\t\ttfont \turnoffactive}
\gdef\goodrm{\fam0\tenrm}
\gdef\math{\goodtex$\mathxxx}
\gdef\mathxxx#1{#1$\endgroup}
\global\let\oldxrefX=\xrefX
\gdef\xrefX[#1]{\begingroup\let\math=\dfn\oldxrefX[#1]\endgroup}
%
% Redefine @i{text} to be equivalent to @cite{text}, i.e., to use math mode.
% This looks the same in TeX but omits the surrounding ` ' in Info.
%\global\let\i=\cite
%\global\let\math=\cite
%
% Redefine @c{tex-stuff} \n @whatever{info-stuff}.
\gdef\c{\futurelet\next\mycxxx}
\gdef\mycxxx{%
  \ifx\next\bgroup \goodtex\let\next\mycxxy
  \else\ifx\next\mindex \let\next\relax
  \else\ifx\next\kindex \let\next\relax
  \else\ifx\next\starindex \let\next\relax \else \let\next\comment
  \fi\fi\fi\fi \next
}
\gdef\mycxxy#1#2{#1\endgroup\mycxxz}
\gdef\mycxxz#1{}
%
% Define \Hat to take over from \hat as an accent
\gdef\Hat{\mathaccent "705E}
%
%\gdef\beforedisplay{\vskip-10pt}
%\gdef\afterdisplay{\vskip-5pt}
\gdef\beforedisplay{}
\gdef\afterdisplay{}
{\globaldefs = 1
\abovedisplayskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\belowdisplayskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\abovedisplayshortskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt
\belowdisplayshortskip=7pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
%\abovedisplayskip=12pt plus 3pt minus 3pt
%\belowdisplayskip=12pt plus 3pt minus 3pt
%\abovedisplayshortskip=7pt plus 1pt minus 1pt
%\belowdisplayshortskip=7pt plus 1pt minus 1pt
%\gdef\beforedisplayh{\vskip-25pt}
%\gdef\afterdisplayh{\vskip-10pt}
%
\gdef\arcsec{\hbox{\rm arcsec}}
\gdef\arccsc{\hbox{\rm arccsc}}
\gdef\arccot{\hbox{\rm arccot}}
\gdef\sech{\hbox{\rm sech}}
\gdef\csch{\hbox{\rm csch}}
\gdef\coth{\hbox{\rm coth}}
\gdef\arcsinh{\hbox{\rm arcsinh}}
\gdef\arccosh{\hbox{\rm arccosh}}
\gdef\arctanh{\hbox{\rm arctanh}}
\gdef\arcsech{\hbox{\rm arcsech}}
\gdef\arccsch{\hbox{\rm arccsch}}
\gdef\arccoth{\hbox{\rm arccoth}}
%
\gdef\Re{\hbox{\rm Re}}
\gdef\Im{\hbox{\rm Im}}
\gdef\Sin{\hbox{\rm Sin}}
\gdef\Cos{\hbox{\rm Cos}}
\gdef\Log{\hbox{\rm Log}}
%
\gdef\erf{\hbox{\rm erf}}
\gdef\erfc{\hbox{\rm erfc}}
\gdef\sinc{\hbox{\rm sinc}}
\gdef\sgn{\hbox{\rm sgn}}
\gdef\sign{\hbox{\rm sign}}
\gdef\det{\hbox{\rm det}}
\gdef\Var{\hbox{\rm Var}}
\gdef\arg{\hbox{\rm arg}} % avoid temporary clobbering of arg in texinfo-4.8
@end tex

@set VERSION 0.1
@set UPDATED 29 June 2006

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2006-2007 Sebastien Maret.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``GNU General Public License'' and ``Free
Software Needs Free Documentation'', the Front-Cover text being ``A GNU
Manual'', and with the Back-Cover Text being (a) (see below).  A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License''.

(a) The Back-Cover Text is: ``You have freedom to copy and modify this
GNU Manual, like GNU software.''
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Astrochem
@subtitle Reference Manual
@subtitle For Astrochem version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}

@author Sebastien Maret 
Department of Astronomy, University of Michigan
@comment @email{smaret@@umich.edu}
@sp 1
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifset frontcontents
@contents
@end ifset

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top Astrochem

Astrochem is a code to compute the abundance of chemical species in th
interstellar medium. This manual describe how to use Astrochem. It
corresponds to Astrochem version @value{VERSION}.

@insertcopying
@sp 1
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                    An introduction of Astrochem concepts.
* Using Astrochem::                 Simple example of the use of Astrochem.
* Input file::                      What Astrochem expects to find in an input file.
* Source description::              How to describe the physical properties of a source.
* Chemical networks::               Understanding chemical network files.
* Plotting results::                Plot the abundances computed by Astrochem.
* Contributors to Astrochem::       Who contributed to Astrochem.        
* GNU General Public License::      Copying Astrochem.
* Concept Index::                   An item for each concept used in this manual.
@end menu

@node Introduction, Using Astrochem, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction
@include intro.texi

@node Using Astrochem, Input file, Introduction, Top
@chapter Using Astrochem
@include using.texi

@node Input file, Source description, Using Astrochem, Top
@chapter Input file
@include input.texi

@node Source description, Chemical networks, Input file, Top
@chapter Source description

@node Chemical networks, Plotting results, Source description, Top
@chapter Chemical networks
@include network.texi

@node Plotting results, Contributors to Astrochem, Chemical networks, Top
@chapter Plotting results

@node Contributors to Astrochem, GNU General Public License, Plotting results, Top
@appendix Contributors to Astrochem

@table @strong
@item Sebastien Maret
@comment @email{smaret@@umich.edu}
Wrote Astrochem.

@item Ted Bergin
@comment @email{ebergin@@umich.edu}
Wrote the original version of this code in Fortran. Although the
present version does not share any code with the Fortran version,
many ideas about its implementation were borrowed from it.

@end table

@node  GNU General Public License, Concept Index, Contributors to Astrochem, Top
@unnumbered GNU General Public License
@include gpl.texi

@comment htmlhelp: @bye

@iftex
@normalbottom
@end iftex

@node Concept Index, , GNU General Public License, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@ifclear frontcontents
@comment Use @setchapternewpage odd to ensure that the contents starts 
@comment on an odd page so that it can always be moved to the front when 
@comment printing two-up.
@setchapternewpage odd
@contents
@end ifclear

@ifset extrablankpages
@comment final page must be blank for printed version
@page
@headings off
@*
@page
@*
@comment @page
@comment @*
@comment @page
@comment @*
@end ifset
@bye
