@cindex input file, description of

This chapter describes the format of the input file used by Astrochem
(@code{.ini} file). This file has several sections that are described in
the following.

@menu
* Files::
* Physical parameters::
* Solver parameters::
* Initial abundances::
* Output ::
@end menu

@node Files
@section Files
@cindex source description file, specify
@cindex chemical network file, specify

This section of the file specifies which source description file
(@code{.mdl}) and which chemical network (@code{.chm}) should be used by
Astrochem.

@itemize
@item 
@code{source}: The name of the file describing the source.
@item
@code{network}: The name of the chemical network file. This can be
either a user written network (in the current directory), or one of the
network provided with Astrochem.
@end itemize

@node Physical parameters
@section Physical parameters
@cindex physical parameters, specify
@cindex external radiation field
@cindex cosmic ray ionization rate
@cindex grain size

This section specifies the physical parameters of the problem.

@itemize
@item
@code{chi}: The external radiation field, expressed in Habing units.
@item
@code{cosmic}: The cosmic ray ionization rate of molecular hydrogen
expressed in @math{s^{-1}}. The default value is @math{1.3 \times
10^{-17} \, s^{-1}}.
@item
@code{grain_size}: The grain radius in microns. The default value is
@math{0.1}.
@end itemize

@node Solver parameters
@section Solver parameters
@cindex solver parameters, specify
@cindex initial time
@cindex final time
@cindex solver, setting absolute tolerance
@cindex solver, setting relative tolerance

This section specifies the parameters needed by the ODE solver.

@itemize
@item
@code{ti}: The initial time for the computation, expressed in years. The
default value is @math{10^{-7} \, yr}
@item
@code{ti}: The final time for the computation, expressed in years. The
default value is @math{10^{7} \, yr}
@item
@code{abs_err}: The solver absolute error on the computed abundances. The
default value is @math{10^{-15}}.
@item
@code{rel_err}: The solver relative error on the computed abundances. The
default value is @math{10^{-6}}.
@end itemize

@node Initial abundances
@section Initial abundances
@cindex initial abundances, set

This section specifies the initial abundances in the computation. Each
line should contain a specie name followed by a equal sign and the
initial abundance. Species abundances that are not specified here are
assumed to be zero.

@node Output
@section Output
@cindex output files, specify
@cindex output files, setting the number of timesteps in

This section specifies the output files created by Astrochem.

@itemize
@item
@code{output}: The name of the species for which Astrochem should create
an output file containing the abundance as a function of time and
position. Species names must be separated by a comma. File names are formed
with the species name, possibly followed by a suffix (see below) and the
@code{.abun} file extensition.
@item
@code{suffix}: A suffix to append to the name of the specie, before the
file extension (@code{.abun} or @code{.reac}). This is usefull when you
want to run astrochem for a number of different input files located in
the same directory; this way the results of a given simulation won't be
overwritten by results of an other one. A leading underscore will be
added to this suffix.
@item
@code{time_steps}: The number of time steps in output files. The default
value is 32. If plots of abundances v.s. time appear too ``boxy'', you
may increase this number. Note that this only affect the number of time
steps in the output files. The internal time step size is set by the ODE
solver in order to reach the specified absolute and relative errors on
the abundances.
@item
@code{trace_routes}: This parameter is used to toggle the computation of
the major formation and destruction routes of the species given in
@code{output}. If this parameter is set to 1, Astrochem will create a
file that contain the formation/destruction rate and reaction number of
the 10 most important formation/destruction reaction for each specie, as
a function of time position (i.e. shell). As for abundance files, file
names for formation and destruction routes are formed with the species
name, possibly followed by a suffix (see below) but with the
@code{.reac} file extensition.

@end itemize



