@cindex license of Astrochem
@cindex GNU General Public License
Astrochem is a code to compute the abundances of chemical species in the
interstellar medium, as function of time. It is designed to study the
chemistry in a variety of astronomical objects, including diffuse
clouds, dense clouds, photodissociation regions, prestellar cores,
protostars, and protostellar disks. Astrochem reads a chemical reaction
network from a file, builds up a system of kinetic equations, and solve
it using a stiff ordinary differential equation (ODE) solver. The
computed abundances are written in text files, and can be plotted in
different ways with the tools provided with Astrochem. In addition, a
tool to convert chemical network files from various formats into
Astrochem native format is also provided. Astrochem is written in C, and
its source code is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License (GPL).

@menu
* Astrochem is Free Software::  
* Obtaining and installing Astrochem::  
* Reporting Bugs::              
* Contributing to Astrochem::   
* Further Information::         
@end menu

@node Astrochem is Free Software
@section Astrochem is Free Software
@cindex free software, explanation of

Astrochem is Free Software, released under the GNU General Public
License (@pxref{GNU General Public License}). It means that you have the
right to copy it, to modify it, and to redistribute it. For example, you
may want to modify the code to solve your particular problem, and to
redistribute the modified version to your colleagues under the terms of
this license. Further information about the license is available from
the GNU Project webpage @cite{Frequently Asked Questions about the GNU
GPL}.

@node Obtaining and installing Astrochem
@section Obtaining and installing Astrochem
@cindex obtaining Astrochem
@cindex downloading Astrochem
@cindex installing Astrochem

The source code of Astrochem can be downloaded from the following webpage:

@itemize @asis
@item 
@uref{http://www.astro.lsa.umich.edu/~smaret/astrochem}
@end itemize

The @file{INSTALL} file included in the Astrochem distribution contains
instructions to install Astrochem on your computer. Astrochem is
portable, and should compile on most platforms with a C compiler,
including GNU/Linux, and MacOSX.

@node Reporting Bugs
@section Reporting Bugs
@cindex reporting bugs in Astrochem
@cindex bugs, how to report

A list of known bugs can be found in the @file{BUGS} file included in
the Astrochem distribution. If you find a bug which is not listed in
this file, please report it to @email{smaret@@umich.edu}.

@node Contributing to Astrochem
@section Contributing to Astrochem
@cindex contributing to Astrochem
@cindex contribute, how to

Astrochem is a volunteer project. You can help the project in a number of
ways:

@itemize
@item
By testing the code and reporting any bug you find

@item
By making any improvements or extensions to the code that you develop
available to other users

@item
By working on the problem listed in the @file{BUGS} or @file{TODO} files
in the Astrochem distribution.
@end itemize 

@node  Further Information
@section Further Information
@cindex website, developer information
@cindex contacting the Astrochem developers
Additional information is available from the website mentioned above.
Any questions about the use and installation of the code can be asked to
@email{smaret@@umich.edu}.

@c Local Variables: 
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: "astrochem"
@c End: 
