@cindex network files

Astrochem comes with several chemical networks files. You can also write
your own networks. This chapter describes the networks files provided
with Astrochem, as well as the network file format and reaction scheme
used by Astrochem.

@menu
* Networks provided with Astrochem::
* Reaction types and rates::
* Network file format::
* Convert networks to Astrochem format::
@end menu

@node Networks provided with Astrochem
@section Networks provided with Astrochem
@cindex chemical network file, default
@cindex Ohio State University chemical network
@cindex UMIST database for astrochemistry network

Three different networks are distributed with Astrochem.  These networks
can be found in the network directory of the source distribution.

@itemize
@item
@code{osu2007.chm}: This network file contains the reactions and rates
from the Ohio State University astrochemistry database, that is maintain
by Eric Herbst. In correspond to the January 2007 version of the
database. This network contains 4429 and 452 species.
@item
@code{udfa2006.chm}: This networks contains the reactions and rate from
the UMIST Database for Astrochemistry (UDFA) 2006, that is maintained
Tom Millar and collaborators. This file correspond to the non-dipole
version, that is it does not includes the enhancement of ion-neutral
rates for reactions in which the neutral has a large, permanent dipole
moment.
@item
@code{udfa2006_dipole.chm}: This network correspond to the dipole
enhanced version of the UDFA 2006 database. It should be preferred to
the non-dipole version for low temperaratures (a few tens Kelvins).
@end itemize

@node Reaction types and rates
@section Reaction types and rates
@cindex reaction types
@cindex reaction rates

This section describes the type of reactions that Astrochem supports,
and how their rates are computed. Astrochem follows the nomenclature
used in the Ohio Astrochemistry database, but also include gas grain
interactions, such as the freeze-out of molecules on the grain surfaces
and the desorption by different mechanisms.

@itemize
@item
Type 0: Gas-grain interaction (excluding depletion and desorption), and
electron-grain recombination. The rate is given by
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \alpha \left( T_{\rm gas} \over 300 \right)^{\beta} N_{gd}
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = \alpha * (T_@{gas@} / 300)^@{\beta@} N_@{gd@}
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{N_{\rm gd}} is the gas to dust number ratio, assumed to be
@math{7.57 \times 10^{11}}.

@item
Type 1: Cosmic-ray ionization (direct process) and cosmic-ray induced
photo-reactions (indirect process). The rate is 
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \alpha \, \chi
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = alpha * \chi
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{\chi} is the cosmic ray ionization rate set in the
input file (@pxref{Input file}).

@item
Type 3: Radiative association. The rate is 
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \alpha \left( T_{gas} \over 300 \right)^\beta {\rm exp} \left( -\gamma
\over T_{\rm gas} \right)
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex

@ifinfo

@example
k = \alpha * (T_@{gas@} / 300)^\beta * exp (-\gamma / T_@{gas@})
@end example

@end ifinfo

@item
Type 4: Radiative association. The rate is the same that the one of type
3 reactions.

@item
Type 5: Associative ejection. The rate is the same that the one of type
3 reactions.

@item
Type 6: Neutral + neutral @math{\rightarrow} ion + electron. The rate is
the same that the one of type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 7: Neutral-neutral reactions. The rate is the same that the one of
type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 8: Neutral-neutral radiative association.  The rate is the same
that the one of type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 9: Dissociative recombination. The rate is the same that the one of
type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 10: Radiative recombination. The rate is the same that the one of
type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 11: Dissociative recombination. The rate is the same that the one
of type 3 reactions.

@item
Type 12: Electron attachment. The rate is the same that the one of type
3 reactions.

@item
Type 13: Photo-ionization and photo-dissociation reactions. The rate is
given by:
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \chi \, \alpha \, {\rm exp} \left( -\gamma \over A_{v} \right)
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = \chi \, alpha \, exp \left(-\gamma \over A_@{v@}\right)
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{\chi} is the interstellar radiation field (in
Habing units) given in the input file (@pxref{Input file}), and
@math{A_@{v@}} is the visual extinction.

@item
Type 20: Depletion on the grains. The rate is given by
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay 
$$
k = \alpha \, \pi \, \gamma^2 \, \left( 8 k_{b} \, T_{\rm gas} \over
  \pi \, \beta \, m_{p} \right)^{1/2}
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = \alpha * \pi * \gamma^@{2@} * (8 * k_@{b@} * T_@{gas@})/(\pi * \beta * m_@{p@})^@{0.5@}
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{\alpha} is the sticking coefficient on the grain,
@math{\gamma} is the grain cross section, @math{k_{b}} is the Boltzman
constant, @math{\beta} is the mass of the atom or molecule considered,
expressed in atomic mass units, and @math{m_{p}} is the proton mass.

@item
Type 21: Thermal desorption.
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \nu_{0} \, {\rm exp} \left( -\gamma \over T_{\rm dust}\right)
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = nu0 * exp \left( -gamma \over Tdust \right)
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{\nu_{0}} is latice vibration frequency for the
absorbed atom or molecule, and @math{\gamma} is the binding energy of
the absorbed specie.

@item
Type 22: Cosmic rays desorption. The rate is:
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = \nu_{0} \, {\rm exp} \left( -\gamma \over T_{\rm cr} \right)
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = nu0 * exp (-gamma / Tcr )
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{T_{\rm cr}} is the spot temperature of a grain that is
heated by a cosmic ray, taken to be 70 K.

@item
Type 23: Photo-desorption. The rate is:
@iftex
@tex
\beforedisplay
$$
k = Y \chi {\rm exp} (-2\, A_{v}) \pi \gamma^2
$$
\afterdisplay
@end tex
@end iftex
@ifinfo

@example
k = Y * chi * exp (-2 Av) pi gamma**2
@end example

@end ifinfo
@noindent where @math{Y} is the photo-desorption yield given in the
input file (@pxref{Input file}) and @math{gamma} is the grain radius.

@end itemize

@node Network file format
@section Network file format

This section describes the file format for Astrochem network files
(@code{.chm}). Here is an example of a network file:

@example
@verbatiminclude examples/network.chm
@end example

Lines that starts with the @code{#} character are comments.

Each reactant and each products are separated by a @code{+} sign
preceded and followed by one or more white space or tab. Up to three
reactants can be specified. Ions charges must be put between
paranthesis.

Reactants and products are separated by the @code{->} characters. Up to
four products can be specified.

The four following numbers are @code{\alpha}, @code{\beta}, and
@code{\gamma}. Their physical meaning depend on the type of the reaction
(see previous section). The following number is the reaction type
number, and the last one is the reaction number. These numbers can be
separated by any number of white spaces or tabs.

@code{cosmic-ray}, @code{uv-photon} and @code{photon} are not actual
reactant or products, but just make the reading of the network
easier. They are ignored by Astrochem.

@node Convert networks to Astrochem format
@section Convert networks to Astrochem format

Astrochem comes with a tool called @code{chmconvert} to convert network
files to @code{.chm} files. This tool support formats of the UMIST and
OSU database. The type of file is determined from the file extension,
which should be @code{.udfa} for UMIST database files, and @code{.osu}
for Ohio State University database files. Networks can be converted as
follows:

@code{% chmconvert -o osu2007.chm osu2007.osu}

The @code{-o} option is used to select the name of the output file. If
not specified, the network is copied to the standard output.
