.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Dd January 20, 2009
.Os
.Dt PLABUN 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm plabun
.Nd plot abundances computed by astrochem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar option
.Ar command
.Ar file1
.Op Ar file2 ...
.\"
.\" Description
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a 
.Xr python 1
script to plot the abundances computed by
.Xr astrochem 1
.\"
.\" Commands
.\"
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Cm av Ar file1 Op Ar file2 ...
Plot abundances as a function of the visual extinction at a given
time. For this the model file (.mdl) must be specified with the
--model option).
.It Cm time Ar file1 Op Ar file2 ...
Plot abundance as a function of time in a given shell
.\"
.\" Options
.\"
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Cm -h, --help
Display help text.
.It Cm -V, --version
Display astrochem version information.
.It Cm -o Ar file , Cm --output=Ar file
Create a PostScript file.
.It Cm -s Ar shell-number , Cm --shell= Ar shell-number
Set the shell number. Default is 0.
.It Cm -s Ar time , Cm --time= Ar time
Set the time index. Default is -1 (latest).
.It Cm -x Ar xmin,xmax , Cm --xrange= Ar xmin,xmax
Set the x axis range
.It Cm -y Ar ymin,ymax , Cm --yrange= Ar ymin,ymax
Set the y axis range
.It Cm -m Ar file , Cm --model=Ar file
Specify the model filename
.\"
.\" Authors, copyright, and see also
.\"
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Sebastien Maret.
.Sh "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <sebastien.maret@obs.ujf-grenoble.fr>
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006-2009 Sebastien Maret
.Pp
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License. There is NO WARRANTY, to the
extent permitted by law.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr astrochem 1 ","
.Xr chmconvert 1 ","
.Xr plroute 1
.Pp
The full documentation for
.Cm astrochem
is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the 
.Xr info 1
and
.Xr astrochem 1
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Cm info astrochem
should give you access to the complete manual.

