.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Dd September 4, 2006
.Os
.Dt PLCONV 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm plconv
.Nd plot astrochem solver convergence information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar option
.Op Ar file1
.Op Ar file2 ...
.\"
.\" Description
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a 
.Xr python 1
script to plot convergence information for
.Xr astrochem 1 . 
It takes a convergence file created by astrochem in
input, and plot the integration time step and absolute error on
abundances as a function of time. It is primarly intended for debuging
purposes, but it is also useful to determine which solver method is
the best for a given problem.
.\"
.\" Options
.\"
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Cm -h, --help
Display help text.
.It Cm -V, --version
Display astrochem version information.
.It Cm -o Ar file , Cm --output Ar file
Create a PostScript file.
.It Cm -s Ar shell-number , Cm --shell Ar shell-number
Plot abundance in shell. Default is 0.
.\"
.\" Authors, copyright, and see also
.\"
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Sebastien Maret.
.Sh "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <smaret@umich.edu>.
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006 Sebastien Maret
.Pp
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License. There is NO WARRANTY, to the
extent permitted by law.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr astrochem 1 ","
.Xr gsl 3
.Pp
The full documentation for
.B astrochem
is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the 
.B info
and
.B astrochem
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info astrochem
.Pp
should give you access to the complete manual.
