.\" -*- nroff -*-
.Dd January 20, 2009
.Os
.Dt PLROUTE 1
.Sh NAME
.Nm plroute
.Nd plot the destruction/formation routes computed by astrochem for a given specie
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Ar option
.Ar command
.Ar file
.\"
.\" Description
.\"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a
.Xr python 1
script to plot the main destruction/formation routes computed by
.Xr astrochem 1
.\"
.\" Commands
.\"
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Cm av Ar file
Plot the formation/destruction rates of a given molecule as a function
of the shell number at a given time
.It Cm time Ar file
Plot the formation/destruction rates of a given molecule as a function
of time, in a given shell
.\"
.\" Options
.\"
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width flag
.It Cm -h, --help
Display help text.
.It Cm -V, --version
Display astrochem version information.
.It Cm -o Ar file , Cm --output=Ar file
Create a PostScript file.
.It Cm -s Ar shell-number , Cm --shell= Ar shell-number
Set the shell number. Default is 0.
.It Cm -s Ar time , Cm --time= Ar time
Set the time.
.It Cm -x Ar xmin,xmax , Cm --xrange= Ar xmin,xmax
Set the x axis range
.It Cm -y Ar ymin,ymax , Cm --yrange= Ar ymin,ymax
Set the y axis range 
.\"
.\" Authors, copyright, and see also
.\"
.Sh AUTHOR
Written by Sebastien Maret.
.Sh "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <sebastien.maret@obs.ujf-grenoble.fr>
.Sh COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2006-2009 Sebastien Maret
.Pp
This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License. There is NO WARRANTY, to the
extent permitted by law.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr astrochem 1 ","
.Xr chmconvert 1 ","
.Xr plabun 1
.Pp
The full documentation for
.Cm astrochem
is maintained as a Texinfo manual. If the 
.Xr info 1
and
.Xr astrochem 1
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Cm info astrochem
should give you access to the complete manual.

